---
title: "South Coast Iceland"
date: 2024-07-20T21:13:56-04:00
description: "Post description"
images: ["/images/reykjadalur_steam.jpg"]
series: ["Iceland", "Iceland 2024"]
tags: ["iceland", "hotel"]
categories: ["travel"]
thumbnail: "/images/reykjadalur_steam.jpg"
thumbnailAlt: ""
---

Before Myles and I departed for the south coast of Iceland, we had breakfast in the lobby of Reykjavik Lights. The dining area was beyond the bar, in a part of the hotel with no windows. There were rows of white tables with white chairs, next to a white table which held fresh cantaloupe, grapes, oranges, and watermelon on white plates. Warm bread was placed alongside peanut butter and Nutella. Sweets were nearby the bread, with a tower of muffins, croissants, cookies, and donut holes. Self-serve containers of coffee, tea, orange juice, cereal, and milk were behind the table of food, with a pot of hot oatmeal.

The first attraction for the day was Seljalandsfoss, a waterfall located seventy-seven miles to the south east of the Reykjavik. On the way out of the city, Myles and I stopped at an N1 gas station along the highway. Visually, gas stations in Iceland are no different than in the United States. There were rows of fuel pumps, which accepted credit cards. Inside the station, coolers were stocked with soda, energy drinks, electrolytes, and cold coffee. Snacks were neatly arranged in aisles. A favorite of mine was a fruit sticks from a brand called Castus. The price of fuel, however, was nearly three dollars a liter, which pushed the price per gallon past ten dollars. In total, I spent one hundred dollars to fill the tank.

From the N1 gas station, Myles and I stayed on Route 41 until we connected with Route 1, or the Ring Road. The Ring Road, as the name implies, circles the entire country of Iceland. Past the town of Hveragerði, which is near the [Reykjadalur Valley]({{< ref "/travel/hiking-thingvellir-and-reykjadalur-valley" >}}), Route 1 snakes through rural farms, nestled below snowcapped mountains and volcanos. Alongside the slopes were loose rocks and boulders the size of school buses. Sheep were everywhere, behind dug trenches and side by side with the road. The North Atlantic was nearly visible from the passenger side, beyond plains of nothingness.

Eastward on Route 1, Seljalandsfoss is visible from afar. The waterfall plunges two hundred feet from a cliff, and is served water from the Seljalands river, a side-effect of the melting glacier Eyjafjallajökull. Myles and I parked near a gift shop in the style of a cabin. As we had circled behind [Seljalandsfoss in 2018]({{< ref "/travel/iceland-blog-02" >}}), we walked a half mile to the north to visit Gljúfrabúi. The waterfall is overlooked, tucked into a wet cleft along the same rock face of Seljalandsfoss. Inside the canyon, in front of Gljúfrabúi, is a climbable boulder. Myles took a photograph of me atop the boulder in an upward angle, which exposed the 131 foot cliff.

Myles and I kept our time at Seljalandsfoss and Gljúfrabúi short to maximize the day along the coast. We drove thirty minutes to the east of Seljalandsfoss to Kvernufoss, one more waterfall which receives no attention. In comparison to the swarm of tourists at Seljalandsfoss, we were able to walk behind Kvernufoss by ourselves. The waterfall is tucked into a gorge, and is shrouded in constant mist, which wets the area and nearby organic overlook. As the canyon was devoid of people at the time, I scrambled atop the overlook and used my field recorder to sample the white noise of water as it crashed one hundred feet.

Before Myles and I departed Kvernufoss, I stopped into the Skógar Museum to browse souvenirs. In a display case was a miniature white sheep made of glass. As Myles and I had passed hundreds of sheep along Route 1, I chose the sheep as my token, or symbolic trinket, for the trip. I've bought a sole token for each trip since 2017. In my collection are toy taxi cabs from Manhattan and Kyoto, a troll from Norway, a wax Godzilla figure from a movie premiere in Tokyo, a JR-East subway car from Tokyo, a ceramic Romanian house, and a scale Mount Fuji from Yamanashi Japan. My token for Iceland in 2018 was a metal figurine of the god Thor.

The next destination was the Sólheimasandur plane crash, located a half hour to the east of Skógar. Myles and I visited the C-117D in 2018, which has remained along the southern coast since 1973. The earthen car park for the crash site is along the edge of Route 1, marked by a thin wire fence. We were surprised to see a paid shuttle bus, a service not available in 2018. Myles and I elected to walk the two miles to the plane. The foot path is flat and marked with yellow poles. Due to the absence of trees, boulders, and hills, wind flowed freely. Gusts constantly pushed me from the west, which made the two mile walk feel lengthened.

Upon arrival to the crash site, Myles and I had the plane to ourselves for a short period of time. In comparison to our last visit, the fuselage was in rough shape. Weather and people had not been kind. Large pieces of the nose and cockpit had been removed. What remained of the cockpit was covered in graffiti, hundreds of stickers, and pellet sized holes in a splatter pattern. Although the port side remained intact, new holes had been punctured on the starboard side. Before a group of tourists converged on the plane, Myles and I took photographs from the starboard side, as it blocked the wind and concealed the shuttle bus with tourists.

Beyond the plane to the south was the North Atlantic coast. The beach went on for miles to the east and west. Amongst the dunes was a dead seal, half buried in the sand. The body was located farther than the tide went. It was an odd sight. The torso was intact with undamaged skin but the skull was exposed. There was no blood or visible flesh. An old thick rope was nearby, washed in long ago. It was coiled in and out of the sand. Exposure to weather had hardened the rope to a solid texture. As I photographed the seal and rope, the wind carried sheets of sand into the air, which pelted my outer jacket. It was a rough area.

Dyrhólaey, a small promontory on the south coast of Iceland, was next on the itinerary. Located a half hour to the east of the Sólheimasandur plane crash, Dyrhólaey provides a comprehensive overlook of the coastline with black sand, the rock formations of Reynisdrangar, and the wide mass of Mýrdalsjökull. In comparison to 2018, a two lane road had been paved with guard rails. A dirt path once ran to the top, without safety barriers amongst the steep drop-offs. What remained was wind. On a good day, wind speeds average twenty to thirty miles per hour near the light house. On our particular day, the wind speed approached fifty miles per hour.

Near the lighthouse atop Dyrhólaey, wind made photography difficult. I belly crawled to edge of the overlook and rested my camera on a flat rock. The coastline was visible for miles to the west. Afterwards, I descended the backside to the Reynisfjara viewpoint while Myles photographed the lighthouse. Until I reached a staircase made of rock, wind pushed me ahead with constant gusts. I had never experienced such forceful gales. At the bottom of the descent was a vehicle lot with a bathroom, which cost two hundred Icelandic Króna to use. A stretch of Reynisfjara beach, along with an old ship lifter, was visible from within the washroom.

<!-- Reynisfjara Beach / Black beach burger -->

<!-- Hjörleifshöfði Cave -->
