---
title: "Japan Blog 03"
date: 2018-01-01 14:00:00
layout: blog
---

It was dark when the train pulled out of Narita. I did not expect this. In my mind, I had hopes to make it to Shinjuku and locate my hotel before nightfall. But it gets dark in Japan earlier than back home. It was six in the evening but it felt much later. I followed the progress of the train on my phone through Google Maps as the train snaked through small towns and past open fields. We pulled into Nippori Station roughly an hour later. This is where I had to make the switch from the Skyliner to the JR Line. The issue was that I had no idea how to get to the correct platform.

I exited the train and looked around. There was an escalator to my left that went upstairs and the end of the platform to my front. But there were no signs. I approached an older man and asked in Japanese if he spoke English. He shook his head and waved me on. I then walked up to a younger man behind him and pointed at my phone on which I had brought up a map of Shinjuku. He pointed up the escalator. I thanked him and bowed. He returned the bow and smiled.

Upstairs I spotted a security guard and showed him my ticket. He waved me through the ticket gate and guided me to an escalator that led down to another platform. I was tired, so I decided not to walk down the escalator. Instead, I stood to the left. I had heard that this was custom in Japan. It felt backwards but sure enough, a few people passed me on my right.

As I reached the ground level, I headed towards the nearby platform. It was only about a five minute wait. The train that arrived had cars similar to what I was used to in New York City. The one real difference is heated seats, which weirded me out at first but I grew to enjoy it. I didn't sit for too long though. As more people got onto the train, I offered my seat to an older lady.