---
title: "Japan Blog 02"
date: 2017-12-16 14:00:00
layout: blog
---

Immigration is a strange place to be alone, especially if you don't speak the native language. I remember walking into Narita's immigration. There's a large green sign above the entrance that reads, "Quarantine". I'd never been through the immigration process before but I had an idea of what to expect. You fill out some paperwork, get your photo taken and your passport is reviewed. It's simple. The strange part was that everyone around me was speaking a foreign language. It was the first time in my life that I felt like an alien.

While in-line, I started a conversation with this guy I met on the flight over. He had the window seat in my row. I asked him about the immigration process and if this was all that I had to do. He said it would be fairly quick and he explained to me that this was the first step to getting into the country. The final step was customs, which was downstairs. We talked a bit more and he explained to me that his wife lived in Japan. He traveled often between the United States and Japan for teaching. Soon after, as the line started to move, I lost track of him as I stepped aside at a side station to fill out some paperwork.

I found it a little odd that I had to fill out a form that was almost identical to the form I filled out on the plane. It asked the same questions and if I had certain items, such as commercial merchandise, on my person. But this form was for customs and the other for immigration. I filled out the form and tucked it into my passport. The line paused for me to get back in, thankfully.

The first real step in immigration is a mugshot. But unlike the DMV, no one is there to take your photo. A machine completes the process. You just have to stare into a small screen after your passport is scanned. Then you're assigned a station for your passport to be reviewed. I was sent to station 5. A younger man took my paperwork and passport. He scanned my passport and looked over my paperwork briefly. He then placed a small stamp in my passport. The stamp gave me landing permission and I was cleared through immigration.

Once through the door, I spotted a sign that directed me to customs. The sign was translated into English and had an angled arrow pointing down. Customs, to me, looked fairly similar to a security checkpoint. There's a small table for luggage to be reviewed and an agent to inspect. As I got into line, I watched how other people went through customs. For the most part, it was a quick process. You hand the agent your passport, with the booklet open, along with the customs form. He reviews the passport, asks you how long you're staying in the country and that's it. That's exactly how my experience went. 