---
title: "Japan Blog 06"
date: 2018-04-03 14:00:00
layout: blog
description: Jacob Proffer's time in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan.
---

Friday in Tokyo was unique. I slept in for once, which provided an opportunity to seek breakfast somewhere other than Burger King. I tried out the breakfast buffet at the Bonsalute KABUKI, which was located on the ground floor of the hotel. The restaurant served Italian food throughout the day. But in the morning, there was a choice of Western or Japanese breakfast foods. I enjoyed a meal of potatoes, sausages and croissants with second helpings.

The destination for the day was Shibuya. Unlike Akihabara in the Chiyoda ward, Shibuya is a major commercial and business centre. I took the JR Line from Shinjuku Station and arrived earlier than needed. But I had a purpose with my early arrival. I wanted to watch the Shibuya Crossing, an infamous intersection. At peak times, thousands of people cross at once from all directions. And I had learned, from YouTuber's [Kara and Nate](https://youtu.be/PMEZGx985Z8?t=5m40s), that Starbucks was the perfect place to observe it.

To get to the coffee shop, I had to cross the intersection myself. Which at nine in the morning, was not chaotic. There were only a few dozen people around. Starbucks also wasn't busy. I ordered an ice coffee and found a lucky spot on the second floor. From my position, I had an almost panoramic view of the intersection. For nearly two hours, I people watched while Shibuya came to life.

<!-- Department Store -->

<!-- Postal Co. -->

<!-- Mandarake/Crepe -->

<!-- Pizza for lunch -->

<!-- HachikÅ Memorial Statue -->

<!-- Tower Records -->

<!-- Ride back to Shinjuku -->

Instead of returning to the Hotel Gracery, I went straight to Tohoe Cinemas. It was only an eight minute walk from the station. Their ticket booths were automatic and in Japanese. Thankfully, as with Shinjuku Station, the service staff helped me. I purchased my ticket and walked around the lobby for a bit. There was a small gift shop with Godzilla merchandise and a row of gachapon machines. I tried one of the machines out and received a small figurine of Godzilla, in stage A.

Before I entered the theatre, I was given a yellow, rubber figure of Godzilla by one of the staff members. I think everyone who went to see the movie on opening day received one. The figure was roughly the same size of the one from the gachapon machine. I pocketed the figure and found my seat, which was near the front. As expected, the movie was completely in Japanese with no subtitles. Though I'm not into anime, I still enjoyed the visuals. It wasn't hard to follow along with. I was mostly happy to be able to say I went to the movies in Japan.

<!-- Return to hotel -->