---
title: "Norway Blog 02"
date: 2018-11-23 14:00:00
layout: post
description: Hiking the Aurlandsdalen valley in Norway.
image: dist/img/norway_blog_01_social.jpg
thumbnail: dist/img/aurlandsdalen_1.jpg
thumbnail-caption: Group of young men in Bergen, Norway
thumbnail-coordinates: 60.394275&deg; N, 5.3261278&deg; E
categories: travel
featured: true
---

Norway has a lot of tunnels. The majority are short, between a half mile to a few miles long. There are a few that surpass ten with the longest being fifteen miles long. The length depends on the location and the span of the fjord. The majority of these tunnels are two lane, fully lit with emergency telephones. Yet there are also tunnels that are so narrow that only one vehicle can pass through at a time. In these cases, a stop-light alerts drivers from either side when it's safe to pass through.

Most of the tunnels are deep enough to lose radio, WIFI and GPS signals. All Myles and I could do was keep an eye out for distance markers which informed drivers how far away the exit was. Between Bergen and Tvindefossen, our first stop for the day, Myles and I drove through at least twenty tunnels. The waterfall is located near the municipality of Voss, Norway. It was still early morning when we arrived but the place was dead. There were no other tourists around.

Temperature wise, it was a cold morning. I threw on my down jacket and gloves before making the short walk from the car to the base of Tvindefossen. To the right of the waterfall is a small boarded up cabin, which makes a great foreground. I only wish the trees still had leafs at the time. As Myles and I walked back to the car, a tour bus pulled up. A large group of Asian men emerged wearing leather jackets and light shirts, all of whom had lit cigarettes.