---
title: "Japan Blog 05"
date: 2018-03-27 14:00:00
layout: blog
---

Around noon, I entered the infamous Mandarake Complex. Seven floors dedicated to anime, manga, video games and vintage toys. The first floor is dedicated to checkout counters and rarer, expensive toys in display cabinets. Floor two contained cosplay goods, dolls and rare artwork. My one purchase, an Alien book that wasn't released in the United States yet, was on the third floor.

The fourth and fifth floors are dedicated to Doujinshi, which is made up of self-published magazines, novels and manga. Floor six had an assortment of video games, consoles and DVDs. There were some figurines and vintage toys I found of interest on the seventh floor but the prices at Mandarake were high. Most products were priced well above five-thousand yen.

Down the street from Mandarake is Super Potato, a store that specializes in used games. This store had nearly every retro game and game system I could think of. There were original handheld systems, Virtual Boys, Game Boys, Sega Genesis systems and Nintendo 64 consoles. I geeked out a bit when I spotted the GoldenEye Nintendo 64 cartridges, which were priced above five-thousand yen each.

Later in the afternoon, I entered a shop called Mulan Akiba. A densely packed mecca for gamers or otaku alike, the store sold games new and old, consoles, figurines, model kits and movies. And that's just the first and second floor. The third floor contained hundreds, if not thousands, of pornographic computer games and movies. There were even comics. All categorized by content and type. The above floor had typical adult store content such as sex toys, dolls and health products.

Nearby, I found similar items for sale at an adult store called Love Merci. The first and second floors contained lingeries, costumes and female sex toys. The upper floors had a variety of health products, sex dolls and toys targeted to men. These male oriented floors were marked off-limits for females. Most likely due to a mix of sexism and the types of products on these floors. There were artificial sex toys based off of anime characters and boxes with illustrations of what appeared to be teenage girls with the word, "tight," in bold letters.

And it is young girls that seem to be an obsession in Japan. Near Love Merci is a staircase that leads down to a basement gallery. Along the walls were gilded, framed artwork of young anime characters in nude, seductive poses. All of which were for sale. Near the doorway of this gallery was a small gachapon machine. In return for three-hundred yen, the machine would deposit a capsule with a random pair of small panties based upon a female anime character.
