---
title: "Japan Blog 08"
date: 2018-05-03 14:00:00
layout: blog
description: Leaving Tokyo, Japan.
---

As much I hated to do so, I checked out of the Hotel Gracery on Monday morning around eight. The process only required the return of the room key. I considered breakfast at the Bonsalute Kabuki on the ground floor but decided to head to the Shinjuku Station instead. Although my flight wasn't until six at night, I wanted to have plenty of time for the train ride, security and customs. I also planned to have a few hours to walk around the airport before the thirteen hour flight.

But I wouldn't be able to leave Shinjuku for a few hours yet. At Shinjuku Station, I was told that the next Skyliner train to Narita wouldn't leave for nearly two hours. I still purchased a ticket and found my way to a set of stairs that lead up to the designated platform. As with Ikebukuro, I remained below ground to stay out of the cold air. I just found an empty spot along the wall and sat down. I wasn't in a hurry. Though I did make a friend through the wait. I met Vic, a traveler from Belgium.

By far one of the nicest people I'd met in awhile, Vic had also been traveling throughout Tokyo. He was on his way to catch a flight to another portion of Japan. We discussed our thoughts on Tokyo, the red-light district and what wards we'd been to. He also expressed his concern for his flight, due to the extended wait for the train. Thankfully the train arrived on time, a little before eleven. Vic and I said our goodbyes and parted ways, as his ticket put him in another part of the train.

The ride to Narita was peaceful. No one on the train spoke and I had my own comfortable seat. Throughout the ride, I saw a few small towns and a lot of the country side. When we pulled into the station of Narita Airport, I grabbed my bag, deboarded and made my way upstairs to the ticket counters. It surprised me how few of people there were in this section of the airport. I was able to check-in quickly and was guided to an empty security checkpoint for American Airlines.

Security and customs in Narita are straightforward. Within ten minutes, I was through with no issues. The only item I had to claim was the tin of treats from the Pokemon Center. But I did have a funny moment in security. As I opened my backpack to grab my laptop for the conveyor belt, one of the security agents spotted a stuffed Pikachu that poked out. She pointed and yelled, "Pika!". I just smirked and stuffed it back into my backpack as she laughed.

For the next few hours, I sat in a rather luxurious lobby. There were individual cubicles for privacy, leather lounge chairs and a set of flat screens. All of it situated around a FaSoLa Cafe that also served beer, liquid and some basic food. I ordered a pint of Suntory Premium Malt's and found an empty cubicle to relax in. Some time in the afternoon, I had orange juice, chicken and rice at a restaurant called Avion. It was extremely good and I even got to use chopsticks.