---
title: "Japan Blog 07"
date: 2018-04-15 14:00:00
layout: blog
description: Jacob Proffer's time in Ikebukuro and Akihabara, Tokyo, Japan.
---

For the final full day in Tokyo, Japan, I wanted to visit Ikebukuro for the Pokémon Center and revisit Akihabara. Which meant that it was going to be a long day. But I still made time for breakfast at the Bonsalute Kabuki. I decided to mix it up this time and try some noodles and white rice. But I also had potatoes and sausages again with orange juice. Even though the food was delicious and it was a buffet, the restaurant was pricey at nearly three-thousand yen.

After breakfast, I walked over to Shinjuku Station and purchased a round-trip ticket for Ikebukuro. I paid under two-hundred yen, which was dirt cheap. The ride still lasted a half-hour but the car was nearly empty as it arrived at Ikebukuro Station. The plus side was that the station in Ikebukuro was heated. It was a chilly day in Japan. I had to break out my windbreaker and gloves to stay warm.

But I had to exit the station eventually to get to Sunshine City, a shopping mall, which is where the Pokémon Center in Ikebukuro is located. The mall was a twenty minute walk from Ikebukuro Station, which took me through a wide range of side streets, alleys and even a highway. There weren't many people around, which made the city feel somewhat empty. I did, however, observe a large raven that was perched on a street sign for a few minutes.

Once at Sunshine City, I went to use the one ATM machine in the mall to take out more yen. Unfortunately, the machine did not accept Visa cards. Which meant I had to scramble to find a 7-Eleven before the stores opened. Google Maps reported the nearest location to be back near Ikebukuro Station, which would have been a long walk. Oddly, I found an unmarked 7-Eleven nearby within five minutes. I took out ten-thousand yen and purchased a coffee with some change I had left over.

The walk back took me across a multi-lane highway, which was almost bare. A lone taxi and city bus waited at the stoplight. Even though I had plenty of time, I still crossed in a hurry. The Pokémon Center wouldn't open for another hour but I wanted to be early. And I discovered that I wasn't the only one with that idea. There were people, mostly elderly, asleep in the various lobbies around the mall. The lights were dimmed, which made it easy to take a quick nap myself.

The Pokémon Center opened to a dense crowd. In ten minutes, parts of the store were nearly shoulder to shoulder. But the floor layout was open, which made it easy to browse the various shelves. Although it'd been eighteen years since I'd played Pokémon, it was great to see the mass amount of Pikachu merchandise. There were stuffed toys and Poké Balls but also Pikachu luggage covers. One item I came back to was a pair of chopsticks, which had Pikachu engraved on each stick.